# Harry Potter and The Sorcerer’s Stone

## Premise

Harry Potter and the Sorcerer’s Stone lays the foundation for J.K. Rowling’s series by introducing readers to the protagonist, Harry Potter, and the magical world of witches and wizards. At the start, Harry is portrayed as a reluctant hero, a “nobody”, who in this book, goes through a journey of self-discovery, exploring how one’s choices shapes his identity. Furthermore, the stage is also set for the overarching theme of the conflict between “good” and “evil” which is repeatedly brought up/introduced…

## New Characters

- **Harry Potter:** Harry Potter is the hero of the story. Orphaned as a baby, he is brought up by his aunt and uncle, the Dursleys, maltreated by them, and tormented by their obnoxious son, Dudley. Neglected and disdained, Harry grows up to be a timid boy unsure of his abilities. His sudden fame as a wizard at Hogwarts comes not just as a total contrast to his earlier forgotten misery, but as a fate that we feel is very much deserved after his youthful suffering. Yet even after he becomes famous, Harry never loses his modesty and humility. Even by the end of the story, when he has obtained the Sorcerer’s Stone and saved Hogwarts (and perhaps the whole world) from Voldemort, Harry does not revel in his success. He simply asks Dumbledore a few factual questions and is satisfied with the answers, never expecting any praise. Moreover, he does not wish to use his powers to fulfill grandiose wishes. Dumbledore wisely knows that, unlike Voldemort, Harry will desire only to get the magic stone, not to use it. He does not covet riches or power, or harbor any secret wild ambition; he just wants to make sure that the stone and its power do not fall into the wrong hands. The simplicity of his desire is part of what makes him a hero. Harry’s capacity for loyal friendship is another of his attractive features. It is also one of the surest proofs that Harry is developing at Hogwarts, where he is a lonely individual at the story’s beginning but has a circle of loyal friends and admirers by the end. His faithful membership in Gryffindor is a symbol of his newly developing team spirit. He prefers maintaining good relations with his schoolmates to basking in individual glory. Similarly, rather than boast of his immense talent at Quidditch, he rejoices in the communal victory for his house and does not stop for applause even when he breaks Quidditch records. He is willing to put himself at risk for the sake of a friend, sometimes foolishly, as when he battles a troll to save Hermione and when he gets himself severely punished for helping Hagrid with his dragon. Harry’s success at forging true friendships and overcoming his early loneliness is almost as inspiring as his defeat of the evil and powerful Voldemort.
- **Draco Malfoy:** The son of a long line of wizards, Malfoy is the opposite of Harry in his familiarity with the Hogwarts experience, his sense of entitlement, his snobbery, and his generally unpleasant character. Rowling includes Malfoy in the story partly as a foil to Harry’s character; in seeing how unlikable Malfoy is, we appreciate all the more Harry’s kindness and generosity of spirit. For example, right after Malfoy insults Ron’s poverty on the train ride to Hogwarts, Harry buys double the number of pastries that he needs and shares them with Ron. Malfoy’s snobbish insistence on only socializing with children of the best families, his selfishness, and his overwhelming aura of superiority all resemble similar characteristics in Dudley Dursley, Harry’s nemesis in the Muggle world. The similarity between Malfoy and Dudley is important in reminding us that Harry’s new life will not be an escape from his old problems. Malfoy’s presence throughout the preparatory stages of Harry’s educational adventure is a rude awakening to the realities of the wizards’ world, which includes detestable characters like Malfoy. At Hogwarts, Harry will not be surrounded simply by kindness, but will have to face unpleasantness as well, just as he has earlier in his life. But Malfoy also plays a somewhat deeper role in the story, at least symbolically. He is mean-spirited and nasty, but there are hints that in time he may become far worse than nasty; he may blossom into a truly evil character like Voldemort. The Latin word draco means “dragon,” and the French words mal and foi mean “bad faith.” We sometimes suspect that Draco Malfoy may indeed be a “bad faith dragon,” a monster of ill will. Perhaps he is a dragon still being incubated, like Hagrid’s baby dragon that will soon grow into a destructive monster. Malfoy belongs to the darkly powerful house of Slytherin, as did Voldemort. His total lack of redeeming features makes him almost as flat a villain as Voldemort. Like Voldemort, Malfoy is not so much a realistic character as a caricature of badness. Of course, we do not know what Malfoy will become in the future. But his presence at Hogwarts reminds us that every generation will have its heroes and its villains, and that the struggle between right and wrong will always continue.
- **Hermione Granger:** Hermione’s character develops significantly over the course of the story and sheds light on Harry’s character as well. At the outset, she is an annoying perfectionist, a goody-two-shoes who has read all the books for her classes in advance, has learned all about Hogwarts, and never breaks the rules. When she first speaks to Harry on the train ride to school, she is eager to impress him with her knowledge, whereas Harry only wants to make friends. Her intellectual talents are indeed worthy of pride, as we find out later when she scores 112 percent on her final exam. But we sense that her show-off side is a defense against her feelings of inferiority, because she comes from a Muggle family and, like Harry, is unfamiliar with the wizard world. In both Hermione and Harry we see that learning wizardry requires a great deal of social adjustment and self-confidence. Hermione’s development into a likable character and a friend begins in the troll episode, when Harry and Ron are reprimanded for trying to save her from the monster and she coolly delivers a bold-faced lie to the teacher. The little girl who has been abiding by all the school rules now dares to lie to her superiors, and a new friendship is born. Hermione’s decision to support her friends rather than obey the rules showcases what is perhaps truly valuable about Harry’s Hogwarts experience. The school teaches him not just facts from books and how to follow procedures, but also—and perhaps more important—loyalty, compassion for others, and solidarity.
- **Ron Weasley:** When Harry first meets the Weasleys on the train to Hogwarts, Ron is anxious about starting a new school, particularly under the mocking eye of his older brothers. Ron worries he will not live up to his family’s reputation at Hogwarts, and he is unsure how many of his brothers’ stories are trustworthy. Like Harry, Ron is not entirely sure what to expect at Hogwarts. The Weasleys are from a wizarding family, so Ron knows wizarding culture and at least the basics of Harry’s history with Voldemort, even if he has not learned how to use magic himself. Despite coming from a long line of wizards, the Weasleys are not wealthy, nor do they hold the same sense of superiority as other wizarding families like the Malfoys. Ron is initially shocked to discover he’s sitting on the train with Harry Potter, but after seeing Harry’s scar, Ron is not particularly starstruck. Harry is grateful for Ron’s normalcy and the two hit it off like ordinary eleven-year-old boys. They learn together, form opinions of their peers together, and get into mischief together. Ron becomes Harry’s way into the wizarding world, helping to educate him about Quidditch, wizard’s chess, and chocolate frog collections. Ron also proves to be a loyal friend, sticking by Harry through the highs and lows. When Harry, Ron, and Hermione tackle the various obstacles protecting the Sorcerer’s Stone, Ron’s strength is his ability to strategize. He expertly maneuvers them through the giant wizard’s chess game and continues to prove his loyalty by sacrificing himself so that the other two can move forward. While Ron can be impulsive—such as when he volunteers Harry for a wizard’s duel or beats up Malfoy in the Quidditch stands—his actions are almost always in support of his friends.
- **Albus Dumbledore:**  Professor Dumbledore is the Headmaster at Hogwarts. He is an odd old man, but an incredibly powerful wizard who has earned the trust of the wizard world. At the beginning of the book, Professor McGonagall and Hagrid both talk about Dumbledore’s power with a sense of awe and respect. They assert that Dumbledore is the only person Voldemort fears, and the only reason Dumbledore is not more powerful than Voldemort is because the Headmaster refuses to use dark magic. Dumbledore heightens the impression that he is just as powerful as Voldemort by being one of the only wizards brave enough to say Voldemort’s name out loud. Through the eyes of many characters in the book, Dumbledore is an untouchable paragon of wisdom and power. The book also shows Dumbledore as a man of mystery. His start-of-term speech is a string of nonsense words followed by a dire but vague warning about certain death in the third-floor corridor. Dumbledore appears and disappears spontaneously, and even tells Harry he doesn’t need a cloak to make himself invisible. He gives Harry the invisibility cloak, and returns it after Harry loses it, but he does so anonymously. Harry does not know how to contact Dumbledore at will, nor where the headmaster spends his time at Hogwarts. When Harry asks about the Mirror of Erised, Dumbledore lies about what he sees, purposefully withholding details about his deepest longings from Harry. After Harry wakes up in the hospital, Dumbledore answers most of Harry’s questions but will not explain why Voldemort wants to kill him. Most of the characters have great faith in Dumbledore as a wizard and as a leader. They may not completely understand him, but they are happy to explain his quirks as part of his brilliance. Although he only appears in a few key moments of this story, his presence is a significant influence for Harry. Harry believes Dumbledore orchestrates their discovery of the Sorcerer’s Stone and that Dumbledore wants them to find it. Hermione is shocked that a guardian would put children in that much danger, but Harry and Ron are more impressed by Dumbledore’s foresight. They trust him to have their best interest in mind, and Dumbledore’s exhortation that Harry not focus too much on his deepest desires becomes foundational for Harry’s time at Hogwarts.
- **Voldemort:** Nearly everything we learn about Voldemort in *Harry Potter and the Sorcerer’s Stone* is secondhand. The book begins with Voldemort’s failed attempt to kill baby Harry and his subsequent disappearance. We know he wants to conquer the wizarding world and that he has evil methods and intentions. He kills anyone who resists him until he is inexplicably stopped by Harry. Most witches and wizards are so afraid of him that they will not say his name out loud. Many characters refer to Voldemort only as You-Know-Who. Even after his disappearance, powerful wizards like Dumbledore are wary that Voldemort will be back to complete his goal eventually. Throughout the book, Harry learns bits and pieces about Voldemort and why everyone is so afraid of him. Voldemort was once a student at Hogwarts, but he practiced so much dark magic by the time he killed Harry’s parents that he was not considered fully human. The Malfoy family followed Voldemort but claimed he had bewitched them after he disappeared. Harry even suspects Snape of following Voldemort and trying to use the Sorcerer’s Stone to bring him back to life. At the end of the book, we learn that Voldemort has indeed been seeking the Stone to bring himself completely back to life, but it is Professor Quirrell rather than Snape who has been helping him. Whatever is left of Voldemort after he couldn’t kill Harry attaches itself to Quirrell and uses Quirrell as sustenance. Voldemort does not reward Quirrell’s loyalty but punishes him for failing to succeed. Voldemort makes Quirrell kill unicorns so he can drink their blood. He also leaves Quirrell to die after Harry discovers him and keeps him from attaining the Sorcerer’s Stone. Even in his weak state, Voldemort’s shadow hangs over the story. His brief introduction at the end of the book sets up the tension for the future of Harry’s story because it confirms Voldemort still intends to regain power. Voldemort’s connection to Harry fates the two of them together from Harry’s infancy through the whole book series.
- **Professor Snape:** Although Harry has a mostly positive introduction to Hogwarts, Professor Snape makes it clear from the very first night that he does not like Harry at all. In fact, Snape does not like most of his students. Professor Snape is the Head of Slytherin House and shows favoritism to the Slytherins. He is quick to mock and punish his students, particularly the Gryffindors, if they do not immediately get their potions correct. He dresses in dark clothes, teaches in the dungeons, and is known around Hogwarts for being almost constantly in a bad mood. Harry collects clues that convince him Snape is helping Voldemort. For example, Snape is bitten by the three-headed dog while trying to sneak past it on Halloween. Hermione sees Snape seemingly performing a spell on Harry during his Quidditch match and assumes Snape is cursing Harry’s broom. Harry overhears Snape threatening Quirrell. All these clues turn out to be red herrings, though. Because Harry knows Snape dislikes most of the students, especially himself, he assumes Snape must have bad intentions behind all his actions. In reality, Snape tries to stop Voldemort’s return throughout the novel and actively protects Harry from Voldemort’s advances. Professor Snape is unpleasant, but not evil.

## Plot

### Chapter 1

Mr. Dursley encounters a cat reading a map, people talking excitedly about his sister-in-law's family, the Potters, and a man saying someone named "You-Know-Who" has finally gone, and even a "Muggle" like Dursley should rejoice. Dumbledore, the head of the Hogwarts wizardry academy, tells a cat (Professor McGonagall in disguise) that Voldemort (You-Know-Who) killed the Potter parents the previous night but, unable to kill their baby son, Harry, retreated after his power waned. A giant named Hagrid appears, carrying baby Harry, and Dumbledore puts him on Dursley's doorstep with a letter.

### Chapter 2

Ten years later, Harry lives in a cupboard under the stairs in the Dursley house, tormented by his cousin Dudley and neglected by his uncle and aunt. On Dudley's birthday, the family takes Harry and Dudley's friend Piers to the zoo. After Harry starts talking to a boa constrictor and Dudley pushes him, the glass of the snake's tank vanishes, the boa slithers out onto the floor, and Dudley and Piers claim the snake attacked them. Harry is punished for the incident, although he feels he has nothing to do with it.

### Chapter 3

In the summer, Harry spends most time outside, excited about starting a new school in the fall. One day, Harry notices a letter addressed to him, but his uncle grabs it and discusses with his wife what to do. The letters keep coming, and Mr. Dursley takes the family to a hotel, and then to a shack on an island and bolts the door. At midnight, as it becomes Harry's birthday, there is a thump at the door.

### Chapter 4

The giant Hagrid, the keeper of keys and grounds at Hogwarts, smashes down the door, gives Harry a cake, introduces himself, says Harry is a wizard, presents him with a letter of acceptance to Hogwarts, reveals Harry's parents were killed by the Voldemort, and takes Harry away.

### Chapter 5

Hagrid takes Harry to London to shop for school supplies. They first go to a pub, where patrons recognize Harry, and then to a magic street called Diagon Alley. There they visit a bank, Gringotts, where Harry picks some of the money his parents left in a safe and Hagrid picks a small package, which he warns Harry not to ask about. Hagrid takes Harry to be fitted for his uniform and, at the store, Harry encounters a snobbish boy who is also starting Hogwarts.

### Chapter 6

On the train to Hogwarts, Harry meets the twins Fred and George Weasley and their brother Ron, who is also starting Hogwarts and introduces Harry to some details of wizard life, an overachieving girl named Hermione Granger, and the unpleasant boy from the uniform shop, Draco Malfoy. All the students have heard of Harry, but he is not sure how to respond to his fame.

### Chapter 7

In Hogwarts, the new students put on a hat to discover which residence they will live in – Gryffindor, Hufflepuff, Ravenclaw, or Slytherin. The hat tries to convince Harry to go to Slytherin, where unpleasant students such as Draco Malfoy are placed, but he goes to Gryffindor, with Ron and Hermione. When Professor Snape stares at Harry, Harry feels a sharp pain in his forehead scar. Dumbledore welcomes the students and warns them about avoiding the Forbidden Forest and one of the corridors. 

### Chapter 8

Professor Snape humiliates Harry during the Potions class. Harry and Ron go to Hagrid for tea and meet his huge but gentle dog, Fang. Harry notices an article about a break-in at Gringotts in a vault that had been emptied earlier that day and recalls Hagrid emptying a vault in the bank.

### Chapter 9

Neville breaks his wrist during a flying lesson and Madame Hooch takes him to the hospital. Disobeying Hooch's order to stay on the ground, Malfoy throws a magic ball and Harry picks it up. Professor McGonagall orders Harry to follow her and introduces him to the captain of the Gryffindor Quidditch team, saying that Harry will make an excellent player. Malfoy challenges Harry to a duel, which Harry accepts. Malfoy does not show up at the duel site, and when Filch, the caretaker, appears, the students run away and end up in the forbidden corridor, where a three-headed dog stands on a trapdoor.

### Chapter 10

Harry receives a broomstick and a note from Professor McGonagall summoning him to Quidditch practice. Ron makes a nasty comment about Hermione during class, and she runs off crying. The teacher of Defense Against the Dark Arts, Professor Quirrell, announces there is a troll in the building. As Harry realizes Hermione is unaware of it, he and Ron go looking for her, come upon the troll, and inadvertently lock it in the bathroom where Hermione is. After they knock out the troll together using magic, Professor McGonagall scolds the boys, but Hermione lies to protect them and becomes their friend.

### Chapter 11

As Snape confiscates a book Harry borrowed to prepare for his first Quidditch game, Harry follows him and hears him talking to Filch about the three-headed dog. During the game, when Harry's broom begins moving uncontrollably, Hermione notices Snape staring at Harry and muttering to himself and sets his robe on fire. Harry regains control of his broom, catches the Quidditch snitch, and Gryffindor wins. When Harry tells Hagrid that Snape was putting a curse on his broomstick and was injured by the dog, Hagrid reveals the dog, Fluffy, is his and is guarding a secret known only to Dumbledore and a man named Nicolas Flamel.

### Chapter 12

Hermione takes Ron and Harry to the library to find information about Flamel. Harry receives an invisibility cloak with an anonymous note saying it belonged to his father. Wearing the cloak, Harry hides from Filch in a classroom. There he looks into a mirror and sees his parents waving in the reflection. The next night, Harry takes Ron there, but Ron sees himself holding a Quidditch cup in the mirror., Harry returns alone and finds Dumbledore, who explains the mirror displays one's deepest desire.

### Chapter 13

Harry, Ron, and Hermione resume their search for Flamel and discover that he was once Dumbledore's partner and the only wizard to make a Sorcerer's Stone, which transforms any metal into gold and produces an elixir of everlasting life. They conclude the three-headed dog is guarding the stone. At the next Quidditch game, Harry catches the golden snitch in the first five minutes, and Dumbledore congratulates him. Harry follows Snape into the forest and hears him talking to Professor Quirrell about the Sorcerer's Stone.

### Chapter 14

Hagrid tells the three friends he does not know what else is guarding the stone besides the three-headed dog, but he explains which teachers cast spells to guard the stone and that he will never give out information on how to bypass the dog. Hagrid shows them a dragon egg he won and, before the dragon grows too big, they arrange for some friends of Ron's brother Charlie to take the dragon away. They take Norbert to a tower and hand it to Charlie's friends, but Filch catches them.

### Chapter 15

Filch takes Harry, Hermione, and Ron to McGonagall. A week later, Harry overhears someone pressing Quirrell to do something. Hagrid takes Harry, Hermione, Neville, and Malfoy to detention in the forest to find out what has been harming the unicorns. Harry and Malfoy see a cloaked figure drinking the blood of a recently killed unicorn. A centaur named Firenze rescues Harry and takes him to Hagrid. Harry learns the figure was Voldemort, who was drinking blood to sustain himself until he could obtain the Sorcerer's Stone.

### Chapter 16

Harry learns that, while drunk, Hagrid told Voldemort one can get past Fluffy by playing music to him. Harry and his friends decide to grab the stone themselves. When they reach the dog, they realize someone has already passed by. Harry plays a flute, they enter, and Harry catches a bird to open a locked door. Ron leads them as pieces through a game of chess but lets himself be captured by the queen. Harry and Hermione come upon some potions and a logic puzzle. She figures out which potions to drink and goes back to help Ron, while Harry moves forward to find the stone.

### Chapter 17

Harry finds Quirrell, who explains he was the one who tried to jinx his broom, and Snape tried to save Harry. Quirrell puts Harry in front of the mirror, hoping Harry will see and share where the stone is. After Harry feels the stone in his pocket and lies about what he sees, Quirrell reveals Voldemort's face on the back of his head. As Harry refuses to give Voldemort the stone, Quirrell seizes Harry, but his hands blister as pain shoots through Harry’s scar, and Harry faints. When Harry regains consciousness, Dumbledore tells him he saved Harry from Quirrell, that he and Flamel decided to destroy the stone, and that Harry got the stone because he tried to find it for itself, not for its powers. At the end-of-year feast, Dumbledore awards the friends points for their bravery, and Gryffindor wins.